>> Kyle Simpson: There's another
characteristic of the arguments,
and how they flow through our functions.
And it defines a style of
programming called point-free style.
For the longest time, I was confused
by what point-free style was about,
cuz every time I tried to read about it or
see it in a conference talk or whatever.
It was just hopelessly opaque.
I could never figure out
what are they talking about.
And then one day, I was doing this thing
in functional programming, I was just
doing something that seemed natural to me,
and this functional programmer tapped me
on the shoulder and he was like, hey,
that's cool, that's point-free style.
And I was like, What?
This thing that I've never been able
to figure out I just accidentally,
what is that all about?
So I'm gonna give you
the accidentally path.
Let's imagine you have this
foo that takes a function,
it's taking the call back basically.
That callback is gonna receive a value of
v, and you wanna pass that along to bar.
>> Kyle Simpson: See what I'm saying?
And then return its output.
So imagine that that is the code
that you're looking at.
And you say to yourself, gee,
the shape of that function on
line 1 is the same of
the shape of the bar function.
Why do I need that function
wrapped around it?
Why can't I just pass
bar as the call back?
Why can't I just make it look like that?
>> Kyle Simpson: Now I just did that as
instinctual, I was like, I would recognize
places where I had a function wrapped
around some other function call, and
it was just straight up passing through in
the inputs and then returning the output.
And I just called it like a pass
through function, and I was like,
just get rid of the pass through
function and just pass that directly.
I was just doing that instinctually and
somebody came along and said,
hey, that's point-freestyle.
What we mean by points, the way I've been
able to gather from my imperfect research
here, a point is another way of saying
the input to the function, the parameter.
And what you'll notice here is that
we're listing the parameter, and
then mapping it directly is the input,
the argument to another function.
That flow that's happening there
is unnecessarily explicit.
It's verbose.
And point-free style says,
get rid of that point.
Don't make the mapping between
the parameter and the argument explicit.
Make it implicit by just passing the bar,
directly.
So that's what we mean by a point, it's
that mapping between the parameter and
the argument passed through.
And to a great extent, a lot of times we
can just do something as simple as that,
and now we have more point freestyle code.
>> Kyle Simpson: Here's another example.
There's a special term for
a function that returns a boolean value.
Any function that takes some inputs and
computes a true/false as a result,
that's referred to as
a predicate function.
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
isOdd is a predicate function.
It takes the value v,
computes the mod of it even if the mod of
v mod 2 is 1,
then we know it's an odd number.
Otherwise it's an even number.
So I'll gonna find isOdd with that
mode operator like I do on line 2,
and then if I want an isEven or
isEven is just a negation of isOdd.
I don't need to recompute mode and
compare it to zero or say nod=1.
I can just say nodd=1, I've written
code like that many, many times before.
You have two binaries where one
is the negation of the other.
What do you spot about lines 5 and 6?
There's a point there, isn't it?
There's a pass through v from the isEven
parameter to the v argument of isOdd.
That's a point.
There's also a negation there,
but there's a point.
So the functional programmer says,
how can I get rid of that point?
Well, what if I made myself
a utility that generally
just called a predicate and
negated its output?
Then I could use that utility to make
a point free definition for isEven.
That utility I'm gonna call it not, or
a lot of times a functional
program will call it negate.
Use which ever term you like.
Look at what it does?
It takes in a function, returns another
one that's expecting any set of arguments,
it'll pass those along, but
right there on line 3 it negates it.
It throws the exclamation mark in
front of whatever that result is.
And now, down on line 11, we have
a point free definition for isEven.
>> Kyle Simpson: Is this
program point free?
No, now we have a point
up here in this utility.
Where args is passing through.
The intent of point free style code is
not that there are no points at all.
It is that most of your code doesn't have
points, because many times the points
are unnecessary verbosity that
just confuses you visually.
So it's not that there are no points,
it's that we collect those points into
well known, established, provable,
verifiable utilities, leaving the rest
of our code free of those points.
That's what point-freestyle
is looking for.
It's not really changing any of
the functionality of the program,
it's just a stylistic choice that we make,
to try to make the style,
the readability of the code
a little bit easier.
A functional programmer will
recognize not, or rather negate.
They know right off the bat
exactly what that's doing.
It's gonna flip the parity of a predicate.
I don't need to worry about that.
I know what that does.
I don't need to think about it,
and I certainly don't need to
be confused by those points.